
The Rascally Romance
(in a single helluva-long letter about a flicking-short life)

By Sehrguey Ogoltsoff

(Copyleft ;-) 2020 S. Ogoltsoff

Smashwords Edition

CONTENTS
Foreword, a sort of
<u>Book One<br>&nbsp;</u>
epigraph
The Birchbark Sketches
The Genesis
The Childhood
The Adolescence
<u>Book Two<br>&nbsp;</u>
The Youth
My Universities: Part One
My Universities: Part Two
The Parade of Planets
<u>Book Three<br>&nbsp;</u>
The Married Life
Defying the Wash
The Solitary Barge Hauler
<u>Book Four<br>&nbsp;</u>
The Ivory Tower
The Eastern Corridor
The Postscripts

Foreword, a sort of 
  
Apologies & Excuses 
Being completely clean of fancy flights of fantasy, aggravated by all thumbs at spinning yarn, left me no choice but telling the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth; in other words, no merry sallies from within the straitjacket of my personal experience. Which, muchly rueful, limitations annul any ambition to keep abreast with the hackney horses of literary production turning out whales of whimsy lucubrations wrought in line with the bestselling practices at the fantasy, science, mystery, thriller, action, each and every, you name it, twist of fiction in the field. Some sprightly jades indeed! 
But—poor, yet proud—I hereby declare that not anything at all would fit under your skin real nice and smoothly, neither would you in a breeze pull off a fickle fancy whatsoever, like, walking through the walls and over the waters or, say,  indulging in unhealthy recreational addiction to sucking strangers’ blood in totally unsanitary environs. (A sigh.) 
Structure & Content 
Starting with its lengthy title, the novel goes past this here foreword, sort of, and through the following epigraph—curt, but to the point—flows into the narration not marked by overly excessive terseness, four books all in all, with certain passages well nigh sufficient to efface the credence to my solemn oath in the above subsection being taken in good faith. 
Not every truth gets a warmhearted welcome, no one is guaranteed from someone else tossing their back up to emphasize a torrid protest, “Bullshit! Don't dream of selling me that!” 
My meek, immediate, amicable, advise to deeply disbelieving skeptics is to put The Rascally Romance off until they, hopefully, obtain a clearer vision that even truth now and then comprise surprises on a par with any of the weirdest phantasms. And if the truth of this observation rests dim for some obtuse dork, then, “I do envy you, O, truly blessed one!.” is all there is to say.
Though a first-person story, The Rascally Romance, nonetheless, is not a self-relishing report about me, myself and the Number One, yet a portrayal of the whole generation from the most breathtaking, unequaled, and fascinating era since the world creation. 
Now, with comprehending bitterness, I witness the glorious period cinched tightly with a couple of labels, crisscross—«stagnation»><«restructuring»—packed and sealed, all readied to be dumped into the bottomless bin of the past. Yet, neither smart labeling nor shifty package tricks would ever eliminate the fact that the entire history of mankind owns no period to match the one when so young we were. 
Style & Language & Age Restrictions 
It goes without saying that each and every generation inevitably enjoys or lives through their own youth, yet some of them miss out to erect an epistolary pillar marking the fact appropriately. 
The style abided by the erection at hand can be baptized Rabid Realism, to wit, this particular ball is ruled by Mrs. Naked Truth handing soft soap out to neither written nor tacit laws. 
Moving from the style to the language used in The Rascally Romance, it should be noted that the grim-mouthed pearl-clutching language purists might disapprove of presence in the body text some common taboo words. I fully grasp their venerable point and would willingly pull along with the sentiment but for the fear to look a petty diddler. In a true-to-life presentation, you just cannot hold back them those words because life, as it is, would differ from a family movie. For that reason, I expressly discourage any person under 18 years of age to read on any further. 
I am serious: DROP IT RIGHT AWAY, KID! Before it’s too late... 
Technical Notes & Self-Appraisal 
Letters are not supposed to be divided into chapters or parts; they just flow on and on and on, to their end. However, to leave a reader without any map or compass surrounded by hundreds upon hundreds of pages in each direction, to deprive them of any guiding star or two, calls for an exceptionally brazen brutality. 
A caring compassion for humanoid brethren and sistern stirred me up to adding The Table of Contents. 
Ain’t I a fucking philanthropist thereafter?. 
Acknowledgments & Disclaimer 
I thank you all, whose names appear in the tale, as well as those who are not in there (you are indefinitely more in numbers and your contribution to this here work having been written after all is equally important). 
And no less essential was your reading along at least up to this very line. Any book can only be produced by a collaborative team of two: the reader and the author. Thank you because I am (dead serious and no kidding) hugely honored by your most kind cooperation. 
And now we’ve just reached the point when everyone has to decide for themselves whether to return to their pursuit of customary business and/or pleasures, to all those pet joys, and daily problems alongside with habitual rewards and outlets befitting people of sober good sort which (between the two of us, as one buddy-teammate to the other) might be the most reasonable course because you never can tell what insidious vortexes and currents might lurk out there or else keep rowing on ahead, past and beyond the popping buoy of this foreword, a sort of... 
Whoa! After a rambling passage of this kind I do have to shut up and take a breather, meanwhile, feel free to use the stretch for making your informed decision... 
Sincerely, it doesn’t matter what you choose, just don’t hurry at making up your mind and stay assured whatever the outcome there’s no way to put the blame on me because of the disclaimer in conclusion – 
regardless of which course you pick, you’ll never be the same hereafter.
2020-06-03 
~ ~ ~

epigraph:
Looks like that’s it,
As of yet,
And even if not quite,
Still, sort of, may be,
Because of else,
”Hey, you!.“
Bang and – a-ha!.
Vladimir Sherudillo

~ ~ ~ The Birchbark Sketches
…Varanda…
…a handful of random sounds… 
…some sonorant nothing… as any other name… 
And the river itself, at this distance, is nothing but a discordant growl of water in endless headlong run, tumbling among them those solid boulders littered to block the path, whaling away at their blunt pates or, maybe, temples, but only breaks in thrashes against their listless hugeness into the spits of futile frenzy, sends forth the gobs of splashy froth, and rolls in unremitting helter-skelter on and on, and on, without ever getting away from the trap of here and now, fixed in unchanging impetuous rush from nowhere to nowhere, under hollow seldom taps, not to time nor in key, from the smooth ground gravel in its riverbed… 
And the duration of the fit? Don't hesitate to call it infinity plus this one day. Nations had risen and past away, to quote the glorious sage Abu-Lala lecturing his string of camels, while this river kept rolling here and still has to, like in all those ages upon eons since before the beginning of time. 
Mountain rivers tend to keep changeless, except for their names. Sure bet, the hunters of the Stone Age earmarked this one by other sounds than its present sobriquet because all flow and everything changes, handles are not exempted. And with the innumerable multitude of roamers the river's seen upon its banks, you can't decide who’s runnier: the dateless stream of the Varanda or all kinds of us. Now, here am I, a casual bum from endless series, neither the first nor the last by its omnipresent flow. 
...profound pleasure, bro, from your extremely lacy wordwork...and how about pinning down this “I” of mine, eh?... 
A minor spill, considerably dehydrated and motionless for a while, spanned over the good ol’ hole through which all of the future tumbles away into the past; a relay-pipeline from a snotty noddy kid to an old, flea-bitten curmudgeon, the only common thing they share is this ubiquitous word of “I”. 
...me too, me too!...don't leave me out!...I’m also somewhere in between them those two, on our non-stop journey from the one to the other, for even though a-sitting on the Varanda’s bank I still go with the flow... 
“ O, water! We be of one blood! 
…whoa, man! what are you up at? playing a freaking smartie?...who cares a flick about your fizzing quotations at this time of the day?. 
The lazy time remains the most uncaring of all, it dozed off about my one-person tent. The twilight outside its shabby nylon wall still has a long way to creep on before transforming into the dark of night. 
…right, then why not to whittle away the snoozer with something useful, eh?. 
…say, composing the letter promised to your daughter…how about that?..we’ve got the promises to keep, remember?. 
…especially with not a sliver of a chance to fall asleep so early... 
…just only watch your mouth, pardner… easy with them those f-f..er..fumbling quotations… 

Hello, Liliana 
(…a hugely nicer name than “Varanda”, eh?... 
…shut up and mind your business!.)
Seems, I do start, at last, the letter promised when we met in Kiev. 
What for? To marshal a bunch of self-excuses and belated explanations to claim not guilty and absolve my impeccable self? Anything can be explained; nothing can be redone. Yet, with the word given, I've got to keep it… 
Real hard it was to stomach your exemplary correctness and overemphasized use of the officially plural “You” to keep me at a proper distance: “Sure, Sehrguey Nikolayevich…” “Exactly, Sehrguey Nikolayevich…” I began to resent my own patronymic, yet faced the flogging without a flinch, as fits a manly man. 
Saying “Daddy” to a stranger come upon in the Internet vistas is pretty difficult, moreover, if he looks nothing like the Mr. Pretty Guy sitting in your Mom’s album... Some obscure mujik with a hanging gray beard… Not a grain of Daddy from your dreams who you’ve missed since your early childhood. You dreamt of that Daddy, not of this old man. No, thanks! 
Accordingly, our farewell hug at the railway station was just put up with (not a big deal for a woman nearing thirties) and that’s it. The inveterate ice stayed rock hard all along, no microscopic crevice cracked its cold surface; the gardens didn’t splash in bloom, neither got filled with lively chipper chirps of blackbirds, thrushes, tits, and starlings to mingle their joyous trill with the triumphant blare of The Happy End fanfares. The stranger who failed to become anything but a stranger let you go and I gave the promise of a letter to you. Thus we parted, two strangers, at the Kiev Main Railway Station… 
However, of the two of us, I'm better off because there have been so much more of you in my life than me in yours. 
I can still recollect your kick at my nose as you turned over within your mother’s belly. Or that thick sterile cocoon that I carried from the maternity hospital with you calmly sleeping inside. Up to this day, watching with my mind’s eye how in the string of your kindergarten chums you walk round the Xmas tree warms my heart. The most beautiful kid was you, with the fair smooth hair, in a silk quilted vest, red pantyhose, and tiny high felt boots of black. 
I remember quiet Sundays at the empty playgrounds of another kindergarten in the neighborhood, forlorn and empty on days-off where we were coming for you to take a ride on the swing pended with two iron rods. At swaying, the swing screeches pierced the somnolent silence about the playgrounds strewn with the fallen leaves. Those shrieks, alike to sorrowful gull howls, ripped my soul apart. Because I was nothing but a weekend Daddy. 
On weekdays I was far away, working, like a dog, a mule, a slave, at Construction Train 615, aka SMP-615, on various building sites in the neighbor region to earn by self-sacrificing labor an apartment for our young family, and have a home, sweet home for us… 
Then there arrived that weekend doomsnight when, in the narrow bedroom divvied up by your grandparents from their three-room apartment to start our family, I was lying next to my dearly loved wife on the hand-me-down double bed and got crushed with the road roller of her story. 
A couple of days before the weekend, a friend of hers gave my wife a pleasure ride on his Volga GAZ-24, driving miles beyond the city limit, to the Hare Pines Forest by the Moscow highway which he left and parked among the trees. From the glove compartment, he took a bottle of champagne and stripped its foiled cork in the soft demi-light from the dashboard, under a mellow tune on the radio in it. She sipped a bit and sadly said, “Please, take me home.” And he obediently started the motor… 
The whispered briefing on my wife’s unswerving chastity dried up, replaced with deafening silence. 
Stretched on my back, I was spreadeagled by the avalanche of mutely toppling walls and through their suffocating mass only your innocent breathing still somehow reached me from your cot in the corner. The air got strangely liquid leaving oily stale aftertaste. Severe mighty grip squeezed my heart and, to withstand the pressure, it turned into a hard flintstone. 
The only good news was the grimy, pitch-black, darkness, kind enough to hide the odd cold teardrop that rolled out of the corner of my eye and crept, soundless and slow, down my temple to get lost among the hair roots...The last tear in my life...Later on, its trail was followed by wrinkles digging across the temple skin but never again no other tear left my eye in any direction. Except for the tears wrung out by high winds but those do not count. 
(…back to your cherished drool, sissy wuss?...of crushed and toppling lumps of hopes that squashed the poor wimp against the anvil of his own heart petrified in good time, safe and proper, eh?... 
...be a man, buddy, and seek solace in simple truths, whose simplicity makes them so peerlessly unrivaled in their inevitable surety... 
...no busting your balls at construction sites, no sunburns or frostbites will remove or postpone the upcoming next time, when she won’t say, “Let’s don’t,” and start instead to catch the trick of having it in the environs of the GAZ-24 interior... 
...and here another truth undisputed because of its simplicity for you – the recollection of past delights can’t fetch the joy back, but let a speck of mopish memory flit by and the pain, suppressed and gone ages ago, pops up afresh to bite you... 
...it makes you wince even here, by the unknown river running through the middle of nowhere, thousands of kilometers away from the crumpled bedroom, after millions of instances of passing the ubiquitous relay baton of “I” from one I on to the next one… 
...I tell you what, my dear I...heal yourself with the same dog’s hair...got bitten by a simple truth, eh?...bust it with as simple a tool!...crack it with the wedge of a wider grammatical approach, procede from “I” to “we”... 
...who are we after all?...some shaved and powdered, or greasy, shaggy, bristly (or whatever else dictates the current fashion trend) cartload of trained primates… 
...a member cannot but live by the group’s rules and no tricks will ever get you off the hook...ignorance of a law serves no excuse, not a chance to dodge its application to you, right?… 
...now then, comfort yourself with this simple truth, wipe your mawkish slobber up and wait; maybe it’ll dissolve that nasty clutch on your balls core... 
…oh, shut up, man!...the like stuff is not for female tender ears...hmm… 
…seems, like, I’d better give it a start over…) 

~ ~ ~
~ ~ ~ The Genesis
~ ~ ~
~ ~ ~ The Childhood
~ ~ ~
~ ~ ~ The Adolescence
~ ~ ~
~ ~ ~ The Youth
~ ~ ~
~ ~ ~ My Universities: Part One
~ ~ ~
~ ~ ~ My Universities: Part Two
~ ~ ~
~ ~ ~ The Parade of Planets
~ ~ ~
~ ~ ~ The Married Life
~ ~ ~
~ ~ ~ Defying the Wash
~ ~ ~
~ ~ ~ The Solitary Barge Hauler
~ ~ ~
~ ~ ~ The Ivory Tower
~ ~ ~
~ ~ ~ The Eastern Corridor
~ ~ ~
~ ~ ~ The Postscripts

